- [Wim] Dad!
- [Wendle] Wim!
[pants] They just took off in a starship.
You gotta bring 'em back.
Of course. Come with us, sir.
- [SM-33] Where is it that you call home?
- It's At Attin. Where we just were.
C-Can't say I remember no At Attin.
Wim, you promised
we wouldn't get in trouble,
but now we're way, way out
past the Barrier that we're lost forever.
[man retching]
- [all laughing]
- [Neel] Ew.
We need directions home, that's all.
- Is this enough, sir?
- Whoa! See if they got more on 'em.
- [both exclaim]
- Help! Help!
- [groaning]
- [sizzling]
Why did you bring us to a pirate port
full of pirates?
- [electronic whining, crackling]
- No. 33!
- Cool off in the brig a day or two.
- What's a brig?
I guess the legend is that At Attin
holds some sort of eternal treasure.
[man] Fear not.
I can help you get to your ship.
[softly] You're a Jedi.
[♪ gentle music playing]
[music ends]
[♪ somber music playing]
[muffled conversation]
[Nooma, muffled] Here you go, Wendle.
[in normal voice] Oh,
you must be exhausted.
It'll be fine.
Safety Droids will find the kids.
They'll report in soon. [sighs]
We keep goin' in circles.
[voice breaking] What worries me is that
we lost the signal to KB's life monitor.
When I was a girl,
and my friends and I would run away,
the Safety Droids always
found us eventually.
- [Safety Droid trills]
- Oh, finally.
Greetings. I have been sent
by the Supervisor.
Here we go.
Your children are on a starship
that has illegally exited the Barrier.
[Nooma] What?
Is the Supervisor going to contact
the Republic for help?
Because the starship
is outside the Barrier,
the Supervisor is unable
to risk any contact.
Damn the risk, these are our kids!
Our daughter has
very urgent medical needs!
I'm submitting a petition for
an immediate audience with the Supervisor.
- Everybody, please remain calm.
- You have to tell the Supervisor.
[parents arguing indistinctly]
[Safety Droid] Contact outside
the Barrier is forbidden.
[Fara] This is not how things should happen.
Travel outside
the Barrier is forbidden.
Any violation
of planetwide protocols
will result in security action.
[♪ ominous music playing]
[screaming]
- [door bangs]
- [alien screaming]
[whispers] Come on.
- [whispers] I can't. They'll see me.
- [aliens laughing]
- [distant rattling]
- [speaking alien language]
- How'd you do that?
- [man] Practice.
Let's get to your ship.
[in normal voice]
We never agreed to give you a ride.
- Wha-- He's helping us.
- [Neel] Yeah.
I-If you could escape at any time,
what did you need our help for?
Without a ship,
what use was freeing myself from the cell?
- I waited, the Force provided.
- [electronic beeping]
There's no treasure on our planet,
if that's what you're after.
- That's not what I'm after.
- Yeah, 'cause he's a Jedi.
We have no idea who he is.
[Wim] Yes, we do. He's a Jedi!
My name is Jod Na Nawood. And you are?
- Neel.
- I'm Wim.
Now we know each other.
[device beeps]
[Jod] Over here. Quick.
- Quick.
- [prisoner grunts]
[speaking alien language]
He could sense that someone
was gonna come around the corner.
You know much of the Force.
Hold.
[whispers] Wait here.
[Fern] 33 said to trust no one.
This guy was in jail.
- [Wim] So were we.
- Yeah, and he's got magic powers.
So that means we can trust him?
Jedis are the defenders of justice
and keepers of peace in the galaxy.
Everybody knows that.
- [thuds]
- [man grunts]
[object clangs]
Now then, which direction?
There are many living beings this way.
And that way is empty.
Great. Let's go the empty way.
Mmm... Easier to hide in a crowd
than an empty corridor.
- If one wants to--
- Wait. Hold.
So I guess KB's got the Force too.
The Force flows through us all.
- [inhales deeply]
- [speaking Jawaese]
[indistinct chatter]
[softly] Come on.
[chatter continues]
- [growls]
- [pirates clamoring]
[argument continues]
[Neel breathing heavily]
[breathes deeply]
That was too easy.
You're welcome.
Now then, which of these ships is yours?
[Wim] Uh, well...
Okay, I think you should know
that our ship, it-- it's--
He's trying to tell you it's a wreck,
but he's too embarrassed.
Technically, it shouldn't fly.
It smells funny.
Well, can't smell as bad as--
Wait.
Not that?
Ready to kiss this rock goodbye?
- [buttons beeping]
- Depends where we're going.
Oh, I have an old friend in mind.
- [clatters]
- She's an expert on star maps,
lost planets, that kind of thing.
She'll find your home.
- What about SM-33?
- What about what?
Our droid. He knows how to operate
and repair the ship.
- [starship powering up]
- We'll be fine without him.
He saved us.
Yeah, we need him.
We're not going back for a droid.
I thought the Jedi
never left a man behind.
That's not--
- [computer beeping]
- First, it's a droid.
Second, that's not a Jedi thing
the Jedi say.
If you don't go, I will.
- And me!
- And me. [sighs]
We'll go together.
You try that, you'll be recaptured
and back in the brig
before you can say "parsec."
But you can do it, right?
You can do anything.
Yeah, you're a Jedi, right?
'Course.
I'll do it.
You stay here.
Where it's safe.
Thank you.
S-37-what?
SM-33. He was disabled
right before we were captured.
Oh, and don't forget about the rat
that lives in his eye hole.
Wait, don't touch anything!
You don't wanna blast off accidentally
before I get back.
- We should blast off before he gets back.
- What?
[Beef] Silvo has escaped from the brig!
Official business of Captain Brutus!
You there, seen anything suspicious,
have ya?
Well, keep your eyes peeled.
Silvo has escaped from the brig!
Search every stall, search every booth!
Leave no stone unturned!
[♪ suspenseful music playing]
- Hello! I am CZ-D2-9000--
- [powers down]
- [powers up]
- The prince is in danger!
Quickly, I must save the prince!
We must go this way! Where-- I can't see.
I can't see anything!
We must save the prince!
- Did we win? Win--
- [parts clanging]
Damn droids.
[powers up]
- What do you want?
- SM-33?
- Might be. Depends who's asking.
- [squeaks]
- I'll take that as a "yes."
- [powers down]
[grunts]
Captain?
Captain Silvo, i-is that you?
Benjar Pranic, you old blood.
[chuckles] Brutus let you out, did he?
Here, come sit with your old crewman.
- Have some tea and tell me your troubles.
- Oh, I have to shove off.
I'm borrowing this droid.
Ah. Always a fire in your belly
and a mad scheme in your heart. [chuckles]
Eh, Brutus ain't half the captain
you were.
You're the best skipper I ever had.
Now, why is it he decided to let you loose
right before your trial?
I let myself loose.
I just might have finally found
the big score I always talked of.
Oh, that's interesting.
Wouldn't have nothing to do
with those children what showed up, eh,
pockets full of sparkling dataries?
You can't tell a soul you saw me.
There's a good Tib.
Well, that's the real trick, then, innit?
'Cause I'd be remiss if I didn't report it
to Captain Brutus.
Let's call in the guards.
Have a little chat.
- He is so.
- Is not.
- Is so.
He floated stuff.
There's a million ways to make it look
like something is floating.
- Name one.
- Repulsorlift. Tractor beam. Magnets.
Mirrors.
String.
- String?
- Like, really thin string.
[scoffs] You're just jealous of him.
He just wants to steal our treasure.
- There is no treasure.
- He doesn't know that.
[♪ dramatic music playing]
[speaking alien language]
He has a friend
that can help us get home.
And I vote that we take him,
and so does Neel.
Fine. Then me and KB vote we leave him.
That's a tie. And tie goes to the captain,
which is me.
[KB] We're-- We're just kids, Fern.
We can't do this on our own.
Guys, look!
[grunts]
Go!
[Jod] Let's go!
Hit the throttle!
Out of the way.
Watch this.
[kids grunt]
What was that supposed to do?
I think we're stuck on the fuel line.
Okay, I'll try and snap it.
[engine roaring]
[kids exclaim]
It's a very well-made fuel line.
Okay, I have an idea.
[engine roaring]
[Neel] Uh, sir, look out for the--
Yeah, I got it! I got it! I got it!
[all grunting]
[Brutus] It's Silvo!
He's trapped on the line!
Arm the cannon! On the double!
[♪ dramatic music continues playing]
[Jod grunts]
[growls]
[powering up]
Um, Jod, sir, should we be worried
about those?
Hyperdrive.
- Take it! Wim!
- [Wim grunts]
Wait. But isn't it dangerous
to go to hyperspace
if we're tied to something?
[all screaming]
[grunts, screams]
Do you want me to go after 'em, Captain?
[growls] Put a bounty on his head.
I want him groveling at my feet.
And those pups.
Is he dead?
- [squeaks]
- No, he's just turned off.
- Here.
- [powering up]
Intruder on board!
[Neel] That's Jod.
He's good. He's on our side.
He saved us. And you.
Yeah, he's a Jedi.
- Jedi?
- Yeah.
You can trust him.
He's taking us to his friend
who can help us find At Attin.
C-Can't say I remember no At Attin.
[Fern] Yeah, we know.
So... At Attin.
[Neel's stomach growls]
- [Jod] Droid, clean this up.
- [creaking]
There's more in the pot.
Mine! [grunts]
- [Wim] It's okay.
- [KB] I want food.
- [Wim] There's enough for everyone.
- [Neel] I'm starving.
[Wim] Don't push.
Neel, don't put your trunk in there.
[♪ mysterious music playing]
Looking for something...
Jedi?
Found something.
You might want to clean up around here.
Who are you to give orders?
- Never mind who I am.
- [parts whirring]
[laughing]
- Hmm...
- [SM-33 whirring]
What ship is this?
Are these kids--
Are these kids really from At Attin?
I'll tell you what I know,
and mark my words,
for I won't be
repeatin', repeatin' 'em again.
They're definitely from somewhere.
Aye.
- [Neel] Here you go, little guy.
- [squeaking]
You really think
there is treasure back home?
[scoffs] On At Attin? Yeah, right.
Maybe the treasure has to do
with the Great Work.
What do you mean?
Well, like, what does your mom do?
She works in admin.
- Mine are analysts.
- Yeah, mine, too.
So what?
So what do they analyze?
[scoffs] Something boring...
About money.
[door rattles]
Food was good.
Okay.
Time to get some sleep.
But I'm not even tired.
[snoring]
Hmm.
[Neel snoring]
You do sleep, don't you?
It's unlikely you're telling the truth
about being a Jedi.
You don't trust me.
I calculated the odds.
Not everything in the galaxy
can be calculated.
- Sometimes... you have to trust your gut.
- [beeps]
We reach my friend's moon in a few hours.
I suggest you get some rest.
[♪ dramatic music playing]
[buttons clicking]
[Wim babbles]
- What are you doing?
- We're playing.
It's a cargo lift.
Come on.
This moon is cold.
You'll warm up when you start walking.
Come on.
Let's go.
Stay here and you'll never get home.
[KB] Why didn't we land closer?
[Jod] You need the exercise.
He's trying to hide the ship.
Listen, this friend of mine,
we go way back, but...
I don't trust her.
Not 100%.
In that...
she might stab us in the back.
Stab us?
Not literally.
Does that make sense?
Never mind. [sighs]
You'll understand when you're old.
Come on.
- [woman 1] Can you read me?
- [radio static]
[woman 2 on radio] Coming in now.
Go ahead.
[woman 1] It's him, all right.
And he's got a flock of children.
Must be kidnapped. Poor things.
You've got to help them.
[woman 2] I'll dispatch a patrol
to make the arrest.
[woman 1] Good.
I'll stall him as long as I can.
But hurry.
[knocking on door]
[woman 1] Now, who could that be
knocking on my door?
Hello, Kh'ymm.
It's me.
[Kh'ymm] Crimson Jack.
You're looking well.
- Very well.
- Crimson Jack? Who's that?
[Kh'ymm] And you've brought some children.
Why, Jack,
they aren't all yours, are they?
I know I left things
in such a mess between us,
but I couldn't show my face again
until I brought you
something really special.
[Kh'ymm] In that case, how could I refuse
such a dear, old, trusted friend?
[door whirring]
[♪ suspenseful music playing]
Come.
[Kh'ymm] Right this way. Right this way.
Just don't touch anything.
Hi, Kh'ymm.
The place looks great.
I see you've been cleaning up.
[Kh'ymm] Yes, my growing collection.
Trinkets and tokens
from 1,000 different worlds.
There's 1,000 worlds?
There's more than that, my girl.
Should we get down to business?
Quiet, Jack.
Children, what in the depths
are you doing with him?
Oh, this will never do.
- He rescued us.
- He said you could show us the way home.
I got maps of every star in the galaxy
and hyperspace routes between them all.
Where are you from, children?
- Let me explain--
- At Attin.
You've heard of it, right?
At Attin? At Attin?
- [squawks]
- [grunts] Wait, Kh'ymm. It's true.
They're from At Attin.
[machine whirring]
At Attin is very interesting... [grunts]
...as an astrogation problem. [grunts]
- Is that a map?
- [Kh'ymm] No, my dear boy.
You see, your home has been purposely
hidden from the rest of the galaxy.
There is no map to At Attin.
No, this scroll depicts
the Jewels of the Old Republic.
Planets of wonders kept hidden
for their protection.
Long ago, they were all destroyed,
except for one.
At Attin.
Now only remembered in children's stories,
pirate shanties,
and rumors believed by fools.
But I've always believed.
We need a map.
No, we don't.
- You're the map.
- [Kh'ymm] Precisely.
Come. We'll search my archive
by astronomical feature.
Even if it takes all night long,
we'll find your planet.
- [whirs]
- [device beeping]
- [typing]
- Tell me, what makes your planet special
in all the galaxy?
Nothing. It's totally boring.
Any nearby planets?
In school, we learned
about Coruscant and Alderaan.
Alderaan? [chuckling]
Missed the war, did you?
What war?
Fascinating.
[Neel] Part of the Great Work is that
we're supposed to stay inside the Barrier.
Great Work? Barrier?
Tell me, what does this "Barrier"
look like?
[stuttering] You see it at night.
It's cloudy.
- Like a swirl.
- A-ha!
Nebular gasses.
Perhaps that's why the planets
remained hidden.
- Does this narrow it down?
- [Kh'ymm] Oh, yes.
To only 10,000 worlds.
Ten thousand?
We'll carry on until we've picked
your little brains clean. [squawks]
This is never gonna work.
But Fern, we've already eliminated 99.99%.
What, what? What's that symbol?
[grunts] Here. On your rucksack.
[Fern] It's 'cause I'm Head of the Class.
- My mom makes me wear it.
- [squawks]
I've never seen Palmarish numerals
used in proto-Republic artifacts.
[grunts] We'll cross-reference this
with the Jewels of the Old Republic,
planets in nebulae,
our estimated orbital parameters.
This may actually work.
- You have it? Is that it?
- Yes. I...
- Well, no.
- [computer beeping]
No, actually.
So many parameters to run.
You know,
it could take who knows how long?
If I didn't know better...
I'd say you were stalling.
Oh, Crimson Jack, you don't trust me?
- [radio static]
- [man on radio] Come in,
observatory moon, come in.
- [squawking]
- This is Sector Patrol,
inbound to your position.
You wouldn't shoot me.
Not in front of the children.
[man] Observatory moon, we're inbound.
- Kh'ymm, any update on Crimson Jack?
- Call them off.
Children, listen.
Crimson Jack is a scoundrel.
- All he wants is your treasure.
- [whispers] Call them off.
I called these X-wings to help you.
Run for it!
- [squawks]
- [KB gasps]
- [grunts]
[Kh'ymm] No, you can't trust Jack!
- He'll betray you!
- [Jod grunting]
I told you she was a backstabber!
[Kh'ymm grunts, squawks]
[device beeps]
Got it.
Let's go.
[whispers] What just happened?
[Jod] I've got the coordinates. Come on.
[Kh'ymm squawking, grunting]
- Are you okay?
- I'll be fine.
But what are you going to do?
Go with Jack?
He got us this far.
But I don't trust him. Not really.
What did he tell you? "Trust your gut"?
Use your head. Get the truth.
And if you ever need help,
you can call me anytime.
[♪ dramatic music playing]
Come on! Head down!
[all panting]
- Come on!
- [Wim] Go, go, go, go, go!
- Wait. No!
- Come on. On the ship.
We're not going anywhere
- until you tell us the truth.
- [Neel grunts]
- The truth is, we have no time for this.
- [Wim] Neel!
- Who are you?
- And why did Kh'ymm call you Crimson Jack?
[grunts] Well, I'll tell you
the whole long story on the ship.
[KB pants]
33?
Aye, Captain.
Is the Jedi giving you trouble?
We are not going anywhere
until you tell us who you are.
- Crimson Jack?
- [engine whirring]
[Jod] Well, you're not going anywhere
without coordinates.
- Hey!
- [KB, amplified] Hey, X-wings!
- Here we are! We're right over here!
- Stop.
You wanna know who I am? Yeah?
You wanna know? I'll tell you.
I'll tell you who I am. Come on.
On the ship.
- Tell us now. The truth.
- The truth. The truth.
- The truth.
- [Jod] The truth!
[loudly] The truth is, I'm just like you!
Okay?
I'm lost. I'm alone.
But you are a Jedi, right?
[in normal voice]
I never actually said that.
- What?
- [Fern] I knew it.
[Neel] How do you make things float?
Listen! Kh'ymm's goons are not gonna
help you get home.
But you and me, we want the same thing.
Let's make a deal.
I'll get you home.
I'll do the right thing.
Maybe, maybe get a little reward.
We'll make a partnership. Hmm?
Not partners.
You work for us. Deal?
Deal.
[SM-33] We can't leave now.
The launch support system's
half disassembled.
[Jod] Re-assemble it! We're taking off!
[powering up]
- Okay, what now?
- Yeah, what now?
- I'd get the hyperdrive ready.
- Right. Um, how do we do that?
- I'll get 33.
- No!
Rely on a droid, they'll let you down
every time.
- Damn it!
- [Wim] The goons!
[man on radio] Crimson Jack,
land this ship immediately--
[radio turns off]
We have to get to the other side
of this moon to make the jump.
Other si-- We'll never make it that far!
Once we see daylight, we're gone.
Neel, I need you to take the controls
and evade their fire.
- Neel? Neel?
- [stutters] I can't fly a ship.
Like this, just wiggle the controls
a little. Evade. Evade.
You. You. With me.
- I'm the captain! You work for us!
- [Wim] Why is Neel even flying the ship?
- Why can't I fly the ship?
- [Fern] You work for us!
- Let me fly the ship!
- [Fern] I said I'm the captain!
Why, why do we even trust you?
- [alarm beeps]
- Back.
Okay.
Get in.
Come on, Captain.
Grab this. Turn this. Fire here.
Just keep 'em back. Let's go.
[seat clicks]
- [grunts]
- [alarm beeps]
[chuckles]
Whoa.
- I got 'em.
- That was my shot!
- [screams]
- KB?
A little further.
Hands off.
- Let me know when we're ready to jump.
- Okay.
[♪ dramatic music continues playing]
[grunts]
Almost there.
I can't see anything!
- No, I can't either.
- Almost there.
We're clear.
[man coughing]
What are you doing? You let them get away.
It's too risky with the kids inside.
Any idea where they're headed?
If I told you, you wouldn't believe me.
[♪ theme music playing]